A massive discovery of more than 60,000 structures found hidden
in the jungles of Guatemala,
prove that ancient Mayan civilization was double,
if not triple the size of what we ever thought with estimates,
exceeding 10 to 15 million people up from approximately
5 million people estimated during the peak of the Mayan civilization some 1200
years ago. But before I go into the mindblowing details of this discovery,
as it's been described by professors and scientists from around the world,
first, this discussed the insane implications of the find in itself. One,
this demonstrates just how much we don't know about our ancient past. I mean,
here we are in 2018,
and we're just now learning about a 15 million person mega Opolis
as it's been described,
but a more important implication is that it shows just how much more is waiting
to be found from our ancient past, not just from Mayan civilization,
but from civilizations all over the world.
And I'll touch on that later in this video.
Now I'm sure we all saw the headlines going around the world about this
discovery on how LIDAR,
which is essentially lasers that make a 3d mapping system of the ground below
identified more than 60,000 structures in total, including houses,
palaces, tombs, even a massive freeway system,
large enough to conduct high volume trading for of course,
tens of millions of people and all of this, by the way,
what makes it even crazier is that this same land had already been chartered and
surveyed on foot, and they never saw any of this,
including a seven story pyramid. And just to paint you a picture,
take a look at this photo for what the ground looks from your own eyes compared
to the 3d imaging.
So how LIDAR works is that a plane flies overhead and does millions of
pulses of lasers,
and essentially perforates through the foliage of the jungle down below and
creates this 3d mapping system. As I mentioned,
this LIDAR technology is groundbreaking for archeology in it is so much more
efficient than anything we've ever had before to put it into perspective.
A team took eight years to map out one square mile of this forest
floor.
Where's the LIDAR system from the plane was able to conduct 67 square miles
of mapping in just a matter of hours. And this system found so much,
like I said,
more than 60,000 structures that experts are saying that it's going to take more
than 100 years to simply go through the data itself and they're not done
searching yet. So far,
they've gone through just over 800 square miles yet they have more than 5,000
additional square miles yet to be explored.
This find is certainly a wake-up call for archeologists scientists and academics
from around the world.
And that it shows that when you have the Mayan civilization with 10 to 15
million people and this mega Apolis, which real quick,
I need to mention the Mayan civilization was made up of approximately 40 cities,
which is now spans across six different countries, as you can see here.
So when we consider that the Mayan civilization mysteriously vanished off the
earth about a thousand years ago,
despite being as large as 10 to 15 million people. And in real quick,
when I say mysterious, well more modern, uh,
research has determined that it was likely due to a severe drought deforestation
that the Mayans pretty much wiped themselves out.
And yet a metropolitan area of 15 million people has been just completely
unknown to us for so long. I mean,
we thought that ancient Egyptians were a mystery and how many things we don't
know about that civilization and all the unanswered questions we have and they
date back 4,500 years ago,
but something so much more recent as a thousand years ago,
it just goes to show on how quickly the earth absorbs and consumes everything
from our ancient paths. I mean, even take the example of the Mastodon bones,
and you may have seen the headlines of this, uh, about a year ago.
And I made a video on it where it proved that humans were in north America
130,000 years ago, which of course,
there's a major wrench in the human migration process and everything we thought
we knew about human history we're even take the example of Gobekli TAPI,
which I've of course shared in various other videos where less than 10% of this
enormous site has been excavated, as they've determined through ground radar.
And this site is 50 times larger, larger than Stonehenge.
So it makes you wonder what are they going to find as they continue to dig
deeper and deeper and explore this site. And in fact,
it even reminds me of the Giza plateau in all the structures that have been
found underneath and buried from the sands of Egypt.
And if you look at the surrounding area and how much they built upon it,
it makes you wonder what is lying underneath the roads and the houses and
buildings in this area. I mean,
we have to start embracing the fact that human civilization dates back far
earlier than we ever thought possible. And I've mentioned, of course,
the water erosion around the enclosure of the Sphinx in many videos,
but it turns out anytime I mentioned in the new video about ancient human
civilization dating back tens of thousands of years,
and I don't present the evidence to the new subscribers. They're like,
what are you talking about? So often make a detailed video on this in itself.
But the water erosion is so significant and the evidence shows that it was
rainwater erosion, not flooding.
And I highly recommend you look into the works of Dr. Robert Shak on this,
but the last time the Nile Delta region had significant rainfall was 9,000
years ago.
And what we're looking at here is more than tens of thousands of years of water
rain, erosion. So it raises all kinds of questions. And by the way,
the only the evidence doesn't stop there,
the Egyptians detailed lineage of the pharaohs dating back more than 30,000
years. So it starts to make sense.
So when we reflect in the possibility of human civilization,
dating back tens of thousands of years,
we also have to take into account global sea levels. I mean, even today,
almost half the world's population lives right on or near the coast.
And of course in ancient times,
that number is believed to be much higher because of the abundance of resources.
So when you consider that 24,000 years ago, during the last glacial maximum,
there are sea levels were approximately 425 feet lower than they are today.
We have to imagine what might be lying underneath the water and the shallow
oceans, just a couple hundred feet out. I mean,
we've already found many different aspects or things from ancient civilizations.
And this is of course, by the way, spread across multiple continents.
I'll have to make a video on this in detail in the future, for sure.
But we have to be reminded that there's not some team of scientists out there
digging underground for, you know, remnants of loss, ancient civilization,
or looking under the ocean. I mean,
those Mastodon bones were found because they were digging a freeway in San
Diego.
And that's the only reason why they found them and the excavations going on in
the ocean of all people looking for pirate ships and treasure,
right on the floor of the ocean or inches or feet below.
And even when we are looking for something specific, I mean,
look in re this remind ourselves of the Malaysian airlines flight three 70,
which coming up on four years ago, vanished with almost without a trace,
besides a couple pieces of the Bri.
And they know it's somewhere in the Indian ocean and yet they still can't find
it. I mean, just think about that.
The message and the takeaway of this finding from Mayan civilization is this,
that the new generation that will soon be replacing the old establishment within
the scientific community, because make no mistake,
the scientific community has the same issues we're seeing in politics or
government, the mood, the news media, or people in their egos get in the way.
And it slows down the process of finding new evidence and coming up with new
theories that will make far more sense.
So I'm hoping that my videos will inspire others who are in this field and
trying to make a name for themselves to chase after this new topic.
Because again, mark, my words, the most amazing discoveries yet to be found are,
well, they're still buried, but obviously this is a fascinating topic. So like,
leave me a comment, let me know what your thoughts are. And real quick,
if you haven't seen my most recent video prior to this one involving the surging
epidemic and people searching for the life purpose, check it out,
I've got some awesome feedback from it and I'm very proud of that video.
So I hope that you'll watch it because if it's not for you,
it's definitely something that you could recommend to a friend or a family
member, for sure. So I'll just leave it at that. I'm JV.
This is bright insight like, and subscribe,
and I have many more videos to come and a whole wide variety of topics.
Take care, everybody.